They're re-roofing my side of the house today, and concentration is a little thin down here, so it might go slow.

Early on in a project, the steps (in the MMMSS sense) we take are mostly about getting some core function operating,
however poorly.

The shipping product is gonna be pretty big, and it is neither possible nor desirable to *think* our way into the
shipping design. Instead, it's "do something, even if it's wrong".

So what is at the core of kontentment? Animation. Stuff happens on the screen according to some position in a timeline.

My first thought: play|pause|reset|seek a single element on the canvas that draws itself according to the time.

Oof. That's a lot. Too big for a story, can't do it in a team day.

Next thought: Forget correlating the element to the time, just make it draw itself a little differently, brownian motion
let's say, at each tick of the clock.

Better. But I think it would involve crude versions of scene, element, plus the drawing, plus the loop, plus the
controls for the loop.

Nawww, still too much.

Okay. Forget drawing. Instead, just put up a label that's watching the model's clock, and a play|pause button.

There. One button, one label, a Game Loop that changes the label to show game time.

It will prove the Game Loop sends ticks, and is playable/pauseable from the UI.

More importantly, it will give us some code to dislike.

A critical mistake that many geeks make, one I've made myself too many times to count: doing a big design in your head.

Old and successful writers will tell you, "you can't edit what you haven't written".

The key idea here is this: what is the smallest pixels-to-registers-to-pixels thing I can do that will prove something
about something.

After my first proofs that I knew how to pop in and out the presentation pane, I did some sketches for the UI that
involve some light changes in screen layout.

Since I have to put a button and a label somewhere to get this story going, I'm going to be right in the code that lays
those out, so I'll tweak that a little, too. BUT NO RABBIT-HOLING GEEPAW, just changing the position of things.

Step: Add toolbar with time label and play button. (Swap the splitpane's left and right, too).

Step: Make the label watch a string property in the model, the game time. Make the button watch a boolean property in
the model, isPlaying.

Step: Make the button's action call a new playOrPause() method on the model. Make that function just toggle its
property.

This is all very ordinary TornadoFx for me, and amounted to one commit.

Step: Copy my most recent GameLoop implementation into the project. Refresh my memory about how it works. Add one to the
model.

This means adding a tick(delta:Double) on the model, needed to construct the GameLoop.

(That's a bad name, and there's another thing I don't like about that class. Fix that before we're done today.)

Okay, back at it.

Step: Make playOrPause actually start/stop the loop, not just change the model property. Tested it by making the tick
function println the incoming delta. All good.

Step: Make the tick add the delta and just stringify it as a double into the property being watched by the timer label.

(That'll be hideous and unsuitable, but I wanna make the screen start changing.)

Getting close, now.

That works. :)

Known bug in the game loop, which makes the first delta's very large. Gonna stall for a minute on testing that. We
already knew it was there, and we already knew we were gonna have to make that GameLoop code more righteous. We'll get
to that before we quit today.

Instead, let's make that Double->String conversion for the visuals less messed up.

The delta's are coming in as tiny fractions of a second. Let's display seconds and tenths.

Got it. Here's an entirely non-thrilling video of it.

Now, let's get a test around that GameLoop bug and fix it, then let's just tighten down that code, which I find hard to
read and understand, and get some better names.

Oh, wait. Does the AnimationTimer class have to have a UI thread running? I will find out.

Shit. Of course it has to have the UI running. I will have to reach back into my bag of tricks if I want that test.

Judgement call: Do I bite the bullet, and write a multi-theaded JavaFx test?

The other option is of course to read and reason my way through the bug. Such a pain in the ass when libraries and
frameworks bind one into wildly expensive testing.

Okay, what the hell, I'm spozed to be this TDD guy. There's another alternative. Right now, the GameLoop object is
hardwired to use an AnimationTimer as its pulse source. That's why it's not testable w/o having a UI thread running.

Let's make a properly TDD'd thing, instead of hardwiring that dependency.

This feels like a new topic, so I'mo have a beer and close this thread, for now.

Might start again right away, might not, we'll see.

Thanks for the company!

